docs/PRODUCTION.md, before:

# Phase 6: Production Hardening - Deployment Guide

## Overview

This guide covers deploying and operating the go-tor client in production environments. Phase 6 introduced critical production hardening features including TLS certificate validation, guard node persistence, and connection retry logic.

## Production Features (Phase 6)

### 1. TLS Certificate Validation

**What Changed:**
- Replaced `InsecureSkipVerify: true` with Tor-specific certificate validation
- Validates X.509 certificate structure, expiration, and signatures
- Accepts self-signed certificates per Tor protocol specification
- Enforces TLS 1.2+ with secure cipher suites

**Security Implications:**
- Prevents man-in-the-middle attacks on relay connections
- Ensures certificate structural integrity
- Full relay identity verification happens via directory consensus

### 2. Guard Node Persistence

**What It Does:**
- Maintains a persistent set of guard nodes across restarts
- Stores guard state in `{data-directory}/guard_state.json`
- Automatically cleans up expired guards (90-day retention)
- Confirms guards after successful circuit builds
- Limits to 3 guard nodes (configurable)

**Benefits:**
- Improved anonymity by using consistent entry points
- Faster circuit build times after initial selection
- Reduces fingerprinting opportunities
- Follows Tor specification for guard behavior

**Configuration:**
```bash
# Guard state is automatically persisted to data directory
./tor-client -data-dir /path/to/data
```

**Guard State File Structure:**
```json
{
  "guards": [
    {
      "fingerprint": "AAAA...",
      "nickname": "GuardRelay1",
      "address": "1.2.3.4:9001",
      "first_used": "2025-10-18T12:00:00Z",
      "last_used": "2025-10-18T18:00:00Z",
      "confirmed": true
    }
  ],
  "last_updated": "2025-10-18T18:00:00Z"
}
```

### 3. Connection Retry Logic

**Features:**
- Exponential backoff with configurable parameters
- Context-aware retry (respects cancellation)
- Optional jitter to prevent thundering herd
- Connection pooling for reusability

**Default Configuration:**
- Max attempts: 3
- Initial backoff: 1 second
- Max backoff: 30 seconds
- Backoff multiplier: 2x
- Jitter: enabled (±25%)

**Usage Example:**
```go
import "github.com/opd-ai/go-tor/pkg/connection"

// Create custom retry config
retryCfg := &connection.RetryConfig{
    MaxAttempts:       5,
    InitialBackoff:    2 * time.Second,
    MaxBackoff:        60 * time.Second,
    BackoffMultiplier: 2.0,
    Jitter:            true,
}

// Connect with retry
cfg := connection.DefaultConfig("1.2.3.4:9001")
conn := connection.New(cfg, logger)
err := conn.ConnectWithRetry(ctx, cfg, retryCfg)
```

## Deployment Considerations

### System Requirements

**Minimum:**
- Go 1.24+
- 50MB RAM
- 100MB disk space
- Network connectivity to Tor directory authorities

**Recommended:**
- 100MB+ RAM for multiple circuits
- 500MB+ disk space for logs and state
- Stable network connection
- Low-latency network path

### File System Structure

```
/path/to/data/
├── guard_state.json      # Persistent guard nodes
└── (future: other state files)
```

**Permissions:**
- Data directory: 0700 (owner only)
- Guard state file: 0600 (owner read/write only)

### Configuration

**Command Line Flags:**
```bash
./tor-client \
  -socks-port 9050 \
  -control-port 9051 \
  -data-dir /var/lib/tor-client \
  -log-level info
```

**Environment Considerations:**
- Ensure data directory is writable
- Data directory should be on persistent storage (not /tmp)
- For containers, mount data directory as volume

### Monitoring

**Health Checks:**

Check if SOCKS5 proxy is responding:
```bash
curl --socks5 127.0.0.1:9050 https://check.torproject.org
```

**Logs to Monitor:**
- Guard persistence operations
- Connection retry attempts
- TLS certificate validation failures
- Circuit build successes/failures

**Key Metrics:**
- Active circuits count
- Guard node confirmations
- Connection retry rates
- TLS handshake failures

### Resource Limits

**Connections:**
- Each circuit requires 3 relay connections (guard, middle, exit)
- Connection pooling reuses connections when possible
- Typical: 3-10 active circuits = 9-30 connections

**SOCKS5 Connection Limits (AUDIT-066):**
- Default maximum concurrent SOCKS5 connections: 1000
- Configurable via `Config.MaxConnections` in code
- Recommended limits based on deployment:
  - Embedded systems (limited RAM): 100-500 connections
  - Standard servers: 1000-5000 connections
  - High-capacity proxies: 5000-10000 connections
- Each SOCKS5 connection consumes minimal memory (~1-2KB)
- Connection limit prevents resource exhaustion attacks
- Configure based on available RAM and expected load

**Memory:**
- Base: ~20MB
- Per circuit: ~2-5MB
- Per connection: ~1-2MB
- Typical 50MB total with 3-5 active circuits

**Disk I/O:**
- Guard state writes: infrequent (only on changes)
- Minimal disk usage for state persistence

## Security Best Practices

### 1. Data Directory Protection

```bash
# Set restrictive permissions
chmod 700 /var/lib/tor-client
chmod 600 /var/lib/tor-client/guard_state.json
```

### 2. Process Isolation

**Using systemd:**
```ini
[Service]
User=tor-client
Group=tor-client
NoNewPrivileges=true
PrivateTmp=true
ProtectSystem=strict
ProtectHome=true
ReadWritePaths=/var/lib/tor-client
```

### 3. Network Security

- Firewall: Allow outbound connections to Tor relays (443, 9001, 9030)
- No inbound connections required (client-only)
- Consider using separate network namespace for isolation

### 4. Secrets Management

- No secrets stored currently
- Future: control port authentication tokens should use secure storage

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**1. Permission Denied on Data Directory**
```
Error: failed to create guard manager: failed to create data directory: permission denied
```
Solution: Ensure data directory is writable by the process user.

**2. Connection Retry Exhausted**
```
Error: connection failed after 3 attempts
```
Solutions:
- Check network connectivity
- Verify firewall allows outbound Tor connections
- Increase retry attempts if network is unstable

**3. TLS Certificate Validation Failed**
```
Error: invalid certificate signature
```
Solutions:
- Verify system time is correct
- Check for network intercepting proxies
- Ensure relay is legitimate (check directory consensus)

### Debug Logging

Enable debug logging for detailed information:
```bash
./tor-client -log-level debug
```

### State Recovery

If guard state becomes corrupted:
```bash
# Remove guard state to start fresh
rm /var/lib/tor-client/guard_state.json
# Client will select new guards on next start
```

## Performance Tuning

### Circuit Build Optimization

**Guard Selection:**
- Persistent guards reduce circuit build time after initial selection
- First circuit build: ~5-10 seconds
- Subsequent builds: ~3-5 seconds (using persistent guards)

**Connection Pooling:**
- Reuse connections when possible
- Pool size recommendation: 5-10 connections
- Tune based on circuit usage patterns

### Retry Tuning

**High-Latency Networks:**
```go
retryCfg := &connection.RetryConfig{
    MaxAttempts:       5,      // More attempts
    InitialBackoff:    3 * time.Second,  // Longer initial wait
    MaxBackoff:        120 * time.Second, // Higher ceiling
    BackoffMultiplier: 2.0,
    Jitter:            true,
}
```

**Low-Latency Networks:**
```go
retryCfg := &connection.RetryConfig{
    MaxAttempts:       2,      // Fewer attempts
    InitialBackoff:    500 * time.Millisecond, // Shorter initial wait
    MaxBackoff:        10 * time.Second,
    BackoffMultiplier: 2.0,
    Jitter:            true,
}
```

## Container Deployment

### Docker Example

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.21-alpine AS builder
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN go build -o tor-client ./cmd/tor-client

FROM alpine:latest
RUN adduser -D -s /bin/sh tor-client
USER tor-client
COPY --from=builder /app/tor-client /usr/local/bin/
VOLUME ["/data"]
EXPOSE 9050 9051
ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/local/bin/tor-client", "-data-dir", "/data"]
```

**Run:**
```bash
docker run -d \
  -v tor-data:/data \
  -p 127.0.0.1:9050:9050 \
  -p 127.0.0.1:9051:9051 \
  go-tor:latest
```

### Kubernetes Example

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: tor-client-data
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: tor-client
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: tor-client
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: tor-client
    spec:
      securityContext:
        runAsNonRoot: true
        runAsUser: 1000
        fsGroup: 1000
      containers:
      - name: tor-client
        image: go-tor:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9050
          name: socks
        - containerPort: 9051
          name: control
        volumeMounts:
        - name: data
          mountPath: /data
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: "128Mi"
            cpu: "500m"
          requests:
            memory: "64Mi"
            cpu: "100m"
        livenessProbe:
          tcpSocket:
            port: 9050
          initialDelaySeconds: 30
          periodSeconds: 10
        readinessProbe:
          tcpSocket:
            port: 9050
          initialDelaySeconds: 5
          periodSeconds: 5
      volumes:
      - name: data
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: tor-client-data
```

## Upgrade Path

### From Phase 5 to Phase 6

**Changes:**
1. TLS certificate validation is now enabled (was disabled)
2. Guard state is now persisted (was ephemeral)
3. Connection retry logic is available (was not present)

**Migration:**
- No breaking changes
- Existing deployments will automatically create guard state on first run
- Data directory must be specified (defaults to `/var/lib/tor`)

**Recommendations:**
1. Update data directory location if using default
2. Review TLS certificate validation logs
3. Monitor guard persistence operations
4. Tune retry configuration based on network conditions

## Future Enhancements (Phase 7+)

Planned production features:
- Onion service support (.onion addresses)
- Control protocol for runtime configuration
- Metrics and observability hooks
- Rate limiting for resource protection
- Enhanced circuit health monitoring
- Bandwidth usage tracking

## Support and Resources

- Project repository: https://github.com/opd-ai/go-tor
- Tor specifications: https://spec.torproject.org/
- Issue tracker: https://github.com/opd-ai/go-tor/issues

## License

BSD 3-Clause License - See LICENSE file for details.

Commit message:

docs: Update documentation to emphasize the experimental nature and safety warnings of the go-tor project

docs/PRODUCTION.md, after:

# Phase 6: Production Hardening - Deployment Guide

## ⚠️ CRITICAL WARNING - DO NOT USE IN PRODUCTION

**THIS IS UNOFFICIAL SOFTWARE** developed without the supervision or endorsement of [The Tor Project](https://www.torproject.org/).

**THIS SOFTWARE SHOULD NOT BE USED IN PRODUCTION OR FOR ANY REAL ANONYMITY NEEDS.**

**For actual privacy and security:**
- **Users**: Use [Tor Browser](https://www.torproject.org/download/) - the only safe way to browse anonymously
- **Developers**: Use [Arti](https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/core/arti) - the official Tor implementation in Rust
- **Server operators**: Use the [official Tor software](https://www.torproject.org/)

This document describes deployment configurations **for testing and development purposes only**. Do not deploy this software in any environment where safety, privacy, or anonymity is required.

---

## Overview

This guide covers deploying and operating the go-tor client **in test/development environments only**. Phase 6 introduced critical production hardening features including TLS certificate validation, guard node persistence, and connection retry logic.

**Remember**: Even with these hardening features, this software is not safe for production use.

## Production Features (Phase 6)

### 1. TLS Certificate Validation

**What Changed:**
- Replaced `InsecureSkipVerify: true` with Tor-specific certificate validation
- Validates X.509 certificate structure, expiration, and signatures
- Accepts self-signed certificates per Tor protocol specification
- Enforces TLS 1.2+ with secure cipher suites

**Security Implications:**
- Prevents man-in-the-middle attacks on relay connections
- Ensures certificate structural integrity
- Full relay identity verification happens via directory consensus

### 2. Guard Node Persistence

**What It Does:**
- Maintains a persistent set of guard nodes across restarts
- Stores guard state in `{data-directory}/guard_state.json`
- Automatically cleans up expired guards (90-day retention)
- Confirms guards after successful circuit builds
- Limits to 3 guard nodes (configurable)

**Benefits:**
- Improved anonymity by using consistent entry points
- Faster circuit build times after initial selection
- Reduces fingerprinting opportunities
- Follows Tor specification for guard behavior

**Configuration:**
```bash
# Guard state is automatically persisted to data directory
./tor-client -data-dir /path/to/data
```

**Guard State File Structure:**
```json
{
  "guards": [
    {
      "fingerprint": "AAAA...",
      "nickname": "GuardRelay1",
      "address": "1.2.3.4:9001",
      "first_used": "2025-10-18T12:00:00Z",
      "last_used": "2025-10-18T18:00:00Z",
      "confirmed": true
    }
  ],
  "last_updated": "2025-10-18T18:00:00Z"
}
```

### 3. Connection Retry Logic

**Features:**
- Exponential backoff with configurable parameters
- Context-aware retry (respects cancellation)
- Optional jitter to prevent thundering herd
- Connection pooling for reusability

**Default Configuration:**
- Max attempts: 3
- Initial backoff: 1 second
- Max backoff: 30 seconds
- Backoff multiplier: 2x
- Jitter: enabled (±25%)

**Usage Example:**
```go
import "github.com/opd-ai/go-tor/pkg/connection"

// Create custom retry config
retryCfg := &connection.RetryConfig{
    MaxAttempts:       5,
    InitialBackoff:    2 * time.Second,
    MaxBackoff:        60 * time.Second,
    BackoffMultiplier: 2.0,
    Jitter:            true,
}

// Connect with retry
cfg := connection.DefaultConfig("1.2.3.4:9001")
conn := connection.New(cfg, logger)
err := conn.ConnectWithRetry(ctx, cfg, retryCfg)
```

## Deployment Considerations

### System Requirements

**Minimum:**
- Go 1.24+
- 50MB RAM
- 100MB disk space
- Network connectivity to Tor directory authorities

**Recommended:**
- 100MB+ RAM for multiple circuits
- 500MB+ disk space for logs and state
- Stable network connection
- Low-latency network path

### File System Structure

```
/path/to/data/
├── guard_state.json      # Persistent guard nodes
└── (future: other state files)
```

**Permissions:**
- Data directory: 0700 (owner only)
- Guard state file: 0600 (owner read/write only)

### Configuration

**Command Line Flags:**
```bash
./tor-client \
  -socks-port 9050 \
  -control-port 9051 \
  -data-dir /var/lib/tor-client \
  -log-level info
```

**Environment Considerations:**
- Ensure data directory is writable
- Data directory should be on persistent storage (not /tmp)
- For containers, mount data directory as volume

### Monitoring

**Health Checks:**

Check if SOCKS5 proxy is responding:
```bash
curl --socks5 127.0.0.1:9050 https://check.torproject.org
```

**Logs to Monitor:**
- Guard persistence operations
- Connection retry attempts
- TLS certificate validation failures
- Circuit build successes/failures

**Key Metrics:**
- Active circuits count
- Guard node confirmations
- Connection retry rates
- TLS handshake failures

### Resource Limits

**Connections:**
- Each circuit requires 3 relay connections (guard, middle, exit)
- Connection pooling reuses connections when possible
- Typical: 3-10 active circuits = 9-30 connections

**SOCKS5 Connection Limits (AUDIT-066):**
- Default maximum concurrent SOCKS5 connections: 1000
- Configurable via `Config.MaxConnections` in code
- Recommended limits based on deployment:
  - Embedded systems (limited RAM): 100-500 connections
  - Standard servers: 1000-5000 connections
  - High-capacity proxies: 5000-10000 connections
- Each SOCKS5 connection consumes minimal memory (~1-2KB)
- Connection limit prevents resource exhaustion attacks
- Configure based on available RAM and expected load

**Memory:**
- Base: ~20MB
- Per circuit: ~2-5MB
- Per connection: ~1-2MB
- Typical 50MB total with 3-5 active circuits

**Disk I/O:**
- Guard state writes: infrequent (only on changes)
- Minimal disk usage for state persistence

## Security Best Practices

### 1. Data Directory Protection

```bash
# Set restrictive permissions
chmod 700 /var/lib/tor-client
chmod 600 /var/lib/tor-client/guard_state.json
```

### 2. Process Isolation

**Using systemd:**
```ini
[Service]
User=tor-client
Group=tor-client
NoNewPrivileges=true
PrivateTmp=true
ProtectSystem=strict
ProtectHome=true
ReadWritePaths=/var/lib/tor-client
```

### 3. Network Security

- Firewall: Allow outbound connections to Tor relays (443, 9001, 9030)
- No inbound connections required (client-only)
- Consider using separate network namespace for isolation

### 4. Secrets Management

- No secrets stored currently
- Future: control port authentication tokens should use secure storage

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

**1. Permission Denied on Data Directory**
```
Error: failed to create guard manager: failed to create data directory: permission denied
```
Solution: Ensure data directory is writable by the process user.

**2. Connection Retry Exhausted**
```
Error: connection failed after 3 attempts
```
Solutions:
- Check network connectivity
- Verify firewall allows outbound Tor connections
- Increase retry attempts if network is unstable

**3. TLS Certificate Validation Failed**
```
Error: invalid certificate signature
```
Solutions:
- Verify system time is correct
- Check for network intercepting proxies
- Ensure relay is legitimate (check directory consensus)

### Debug Logging

Enable debug logging for detailed information:
```bash
./tor-client -log-level debug
```

### State Recovery

If guard state becomes corrupted:
```bash
# Remove guard state to start fresh
rm /var/lib/tor-client/guard_state.json
# Client will select new guards on next start
```

## Performance Tuning

### Circuit Build Optimization

**Guard Selection:**
- Persistent guards reduce circuit build time after initial selection
- First circuit build: ~5-10 seconds
- Subsequent builds: ~3-5 seconds (using persistent guards)

**Connection Pooling:**
- Reuse connections when possible
- Pool size recommendation: 5-10 connections
- Tune based on circuit usage patterns

### Retry Tuning

**High-Latency Networks:**
```go
retryCfg := &connection.RetryConfig{
    MaxAttempts:       5,      // More attempts
    InitialBackoff:    3 * time.Second,  // Longer initial wait
    MaxBackoff:        120 * time.Second, // Higher ceiling
    BackoffMultiplier: 2.0,
    Jitter:            true,
}
```

**Low-Latency Networks:**
```go
retryCfg := &connection.RetryConfig{
    MaxAttempts:       2,      // Fewer attempts
    InitialBackoff:    500 * time.Millisecond, // Shorter initial wait
    MaxBackoff:        10 * time.Second,
    BackoffMultiplier: 2.0,
    Jitter:            true,
}
```

## Container Deployment

### Docker Example

```dockerfile
FROM golang:1.21-alpine AS builder
WORKDIR /app
COPY . .
RUN go build -o tor-client ./cmd/tor-client

FROM alpine:latest
RUN adduser -D -s /bin/sh tor-client
USER tor-client
COPY --from=builder /app/tor-client /usr/local/bin/
VOLUME ["/data"]
EXPOSE 9050 9051
ENTRYPOINT ["/usr/local/bin/tor-client", "-data-dir", "/data"]
```

**Run:**
```bash
docker run -d \
  -v tor-data:/data \
  -p 127.0.0.1:9050:9050 \
  -p 127.0.0.1:9051:9051 \
  go-tor:latest
```

### Kubernetes Example

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
metadata:
  name: tor-client-data
spec:
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: tor-client
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: tor-client
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: tor-client
    spec:
      securityContext:
        runAsNonRoot: true
        runAsUser: 1000
        fsGroup: 1000
      containers:
      - name: tor-client
        image: go-tor:latest
        ports:
        - containerPort: 9050
          name: socks
        - containerPort: 9051
          name: control
        volumeMounts:
        - name: data
          mountPath: /data
        resources:
          limits:
            memory: "128Mi"
            cpu: "500m"
          requests:
            memory: "64Mi"
            cpu: "100m"
        livenessProbe:
          tcpSocket:
            port: 9050
          initialDelaySeconds: 30
          periodSeconds: 10
        readinessProbe:
          tcpSocket:
            port: 9050
          initialDelaySeconds: 5
          periodSeconds: 5
      volumes:
      - name: data
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: tor-client-data
```

## Upgrade Path

### From Phase 5 to Phase 6

**Changes:**
1. TLS certificate validation is now enabled (was disabled)
2. Guard state is now persisted (was ephemeral)
3. Connection retry logic is available (was not present)

**Migration:**
- No breaking changes
- Existing deployments will automatically create guard state on first run
- Data directory must be specified (defaults to `/var/lib/tor`)

**Recommendations:**
1. Update data directory location if using default
2. Review TLS certificate validation logs
3. Monitor guard persistence operations
4. Tune retry configuration based on network conditions

## Future Enhancements (Phase 7+)

Planned production features:
- Onion service support (.onion addresses)
- Control protocol for runtime configuration
- Metrics and observability hooks
- Rate limiting for resource protection
- Enhanced circuit health monitoring
- Bandwidth usage tracking

## Support and Resources

**For this experimental software:**
- Project repository: https://github.com/opd-ai/go-tor
- Issue tracker: https://github.com/opd-ai/go-tor/issues

**For actual Tor usage and support:**
- Tor Project: https://www.torproject.org/
- Tor Browser: https://www.torproject.org/download/
- Arti (official Rust implementation): https://gitlab.torproject.org/tpo/core/arti
- Tor specifications: https://spec.torproject.org/
- Tor support: https://support.torproject.org/

## License

BSD 3-Clause License - See LICENSE file for details.

**Disclaimer**: This license covers the software code only. It does not imply that this software is safe, secure, or suitable for any particular purpose. The Tor trademark and name are property of The Tor Project, Inc.
